In Quelea you can assign a certain layout to an entire schedule or
individual layouts for each item. By default, the layout will be: black
background and white text that is aligned to the centre of the screen
for songs and to the left for Bible passages. For different reasons you
might want to change this, e.g. to make it more visually pleasing or for
readability reasons. If you have trouble finding a layout that works for
anyone (for instance, some churches have found that dyslectic persons
might sometimes be helped by different colours that others might
prefer), you might want to take a look at the [Mobile
Lyrics](Mobile_Lyrics "Mobile Lyrics") feature, where each reader can assign
their own colours.

## Set a global theme

A global theme applies to all text-based items in your schedule, apart
from timers and presentations. Start by clicking the colourful button in
the upper right corner of the Order of Service section. You will see the
following.

![](Edit_theme_start.jpg)

You will find two example themes along with the default theme. You can
edit (pencil button) or delete (red x button) the two example themes if
you wish, but the default theme is non-editable for you to always have a
good standard option to revert to. To select a theme, you simply click
one of them and all items (songs or Bible passages) in your schedule
will use that layout. If you would like to add your own theme, click the
New Theme button in the left corner. Since [setting up a
theme](#setting-up-a-theme "") always is done in the same way,
regardless if it is a global theme or an individual theme, we will look
into it further after finding were to set up an individual theme.

## Set an individual theme

To set up an individual theme you can click the colourful button
appearing to the right of the item when hovering it. You can also reach
it when editing the item by right-clicking it and select “Edit Song” and
then selecting the tab “Theme”. The second method can be done with an
item in the schedule (both with songs or Bible passages) or with a song
in the song database. One thing to notice here is that the individual
theme will override the default theme, but any other global theme (added
by you or there by default) will override the individual settings you
have made. (This is being discussed at the moment and will probably be
an optional feature in the future.)

## Setting up a theme

The only difference between setting up a global theme and an individual
theme is the first line “Theme Name” which is needed to be able to save
a global theme, other than that, the instructions are the same. As you
will see, you can change Font appearance, Background and Text position.

![](Edit_theme_overview.png)

### Font appearance

By default, there will only be six fonts available to you and “Noto
Sans” will be the suggested font to use.

![](Edit_theme_font.png)

If you would like to add more fonts to choose between, you click the
ellipsis (...) next to the drop-down menu.

![](Edit_theme_add_fonts.png)

That will open up a new window where you can drag and drop any font that
you want to add from the left to the right, and any font you would like
to remove from the right to the left.

![](Edit_theme_font_selection.png)

Once you have selected the preferred font, you can select the font
appearance: if you want the text to be bold, italic, alignment to the
left, centre or right, and the font colour.

![](Edit_theme_font_appearance.png)

### More font options – Translation appearance and Shadow settings

By pressing the ellipsis button (...) next to “Font” you find settings
for the [translated lyrics](Translations "Translations"). You set it up in a
similar way to the [previous font
settings](#font-appearance "").

![](Edit_theme_more_options.png)

You can also set up whether or not you want to use shadows and the
appearance of them. You can activate or deactivate shadow, set shadow
colour, shadow offset, shadow radius and shadow spread. All changes to
the shadow settings will be previewed on the canvas, so you are
immediately able to see the result.

![](Edit_theme_translation_appearance.png)

### Background

In Quelea, you can set the background to be a [colour
background](#colour-background ""), an [image
background](#image-background "") or a [video
background](#video-background "").

![](Edit_theme_background_options.png)

#### Colour background

If you choose a background colour you are advised to choose a colour
that is a good contrast to the font colour. If you would choose two
similar colours however, a warning will appear, telling you that it
might be hard to read.

![](Edit_theme_colour_background_warning.png)

#### Image background

If you choose an image, you will have to browse to the desired image by
clicking the button next to the blank box. By default, the file browser
opens the Quelea image folder. If you would like to add your own image,
just browse to the folder in which it is stored, although you are
advised to first read the image guidelines stored in the “img” folder in
the Quelea main folder (IMAGE GUIDELINES.txt).

![](Edit_theme_image_background.png)

#### Video background

If you would like to use video backgrounds, you will need VLC media
player installed on your computer. (Visit <http://www.videolan.org/vlc/>
to download it.) Similar to using an image as the background, you will
need to browse to the desired video and the file browser will open the
Quelea video folder first. (Note that you also can use live video as
background, but that it requires advanced user settings; see [Using
VLCARG to set up live video
background)](Advanced_settings#using-vlcarg-to-set-up-live-video-background "Advanced settings").

![](Edit_theme_video_background.png)

If you want, Quelea can stretch the video to fit the screen. You can
also adjust the hue, if you would like different colours to your
background video. Of course, this option is best to use only with
abstract videos. (If you need more video settings, look into the
advanced settings available through VLCARG mentioned earlier.)

![](Edit_theme_video_background_stretch.jpg)

### Text position

If you hover the mouse over the canvas, where the sample text is
displayed, nine boxes will appear. By selecting one of them, you can set
the text position best suited for your projection environment.

![](Edit_theme_text_position.png)

-----



[← Chapter index - Additional features](Additional_features "Additional features")
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [Logo →](Logo "Logo")

---
